Draft Engineering Project Lead role (#774)
sourcegraph/about: handbook/engineering/roles.md

- Help your teammates by empathetically [reviewing code](code_reviews.md) and [RFCs](../communication/rfcs/index.md).
- Interview candidates and suggest improvements to our hiring process.

## Project Lead

Project Leads are Software Engineers that lead a specific project team to achieve its goals. This role is an additional set of responsibilities that any engineer may take on once they demonstrate the necessary skills.

> While Project Leads need to have strong technical skills, they are not necessarily the most technically experienced engineer on the team. People and organizational skills are as important as the technical chops, so that Project Leads can effectively coordinate and align with others.

Reviewer: Nit: I just find "chops" to clash a bit in terms of register 🙂 

```suggestion
While Project Leads need to have strong technical skills, they are not necessarily the most technically experienced engineer on the team. People and organizational skills are as important as technical know-how, so that Project Leads can effectively coordinate and align with others.
```

Some teams with more experienced members may need less guidance in certain areas and may even share responsibilities of this role across the team.

### Responsibilities

> - Directly contribute code a minimum of roughly 50% of their time.

Reviewer: IC work spans more than just code. Should we represent this here?

```suggestion
- Directly contribute through code, RFCs or PR reviews for a minimum of roughly 50% of their time.
```

Author: This was specifically about coding. RFCs would be about "organizing and delegating work" and PR reviews about "reviewing work" which is captured in another line item.

Reviewer: Then I think I would prefer grouping all aspects of IC work under a single bullet point (and possibly assigning a higher "percentage of time spent"?). All aspects of IC work are equally important, yet the balance of time spent on each of them  can vary significantly. The important point to get across here is "most of the project's lead time is still spent on IC work".

- Collaborate with [product](../product/index.md) to maintain a [prioritized roadmap](../../direction/index.md) for the work owned by their team.

> - Plan and commit to a set of work that will be accomplished by the team for each [monthly release](releases/index.md) and capture those commitments in a tracking issue on GitHub.

Author: Will do in a separate PR.

- Help keep the team focused on their goals while keeping them aware of the higher level picture.
- Identify blockers or productivity issues and work with the team to address them.
- Run weekly team sync meetings.
- Communicate progress to stakeholders and other parts of the company.
- Conduct monthly [retrospectives](../../retrospectives/index.md) with their team.

> - Scale themselves out by organizing, delegating and reviewing work of other team mates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Scale themselves out by organizing, delegating and reviewing the work of other team mates.
```

> - Mentor and coach other team mates with timely feedback as appropriate in order to up-hold team values and help them grow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Mentor and coach other team mates with timely feedback as appropriate in order to uphold team values and help them grow.
```
